src/metric-spaces/precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions.lagda.md, before:

# The precategory of metric spaces and short functions

```agda
module metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-precategories
open import category-theory.precategories

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.binary-transport
open import foundation.contractible-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.torsorial-type-families
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.equality-of-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometric-equivalences-premetric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometries-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-isometries
open import metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

The [short functions](metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces.md) between
[metric spaces](metric-spaces.metric-spaces.md) form a
[precategory](category-theory.precategories.md).

## Definition

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  where

  precategory-short-function-Metric-Space :
    Precategory (lsuc l1 ⊔ lsuc l2) (l1 ⊔ l2)
  precategory-short-function-Metric-Space =
    make-Precategory
      ( Metric-Space l1 l2)
      ( set-short-function-Metric-Space)
      ( λ {A B C} → comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B C)
      ( short-id-Metric-Space)
      ( λ {A B C D} → associative-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B C D)
      ( λ {A B} → left-unit-law-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
      ( λ {A B} → right-unit-law-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
```

## Properties

### Isomorphisms in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps are equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f →
    is-equiv (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
  is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space (g , I , J) =
    is-equiv-is-invertible
      ( map-short-function-Metric-Space B A g)
      ( htpy-eq (ap (map-short-function-Metric-Space B B) I))
      ( htpy-eq (ap (map-short-function-Metric-Space A A) J))
```

### Isomorphisms in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps are isometries

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f →
    is-isometry-Metric-Space A B (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
  pr1 (is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space I d x y) =
    is-short-map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f d x y
  pr2 (is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space I d x y) H =
    binary-tr
      ( neighborhood-Metric-Space A d)
        ( ap
          ( λ K → map-short-function-Metric-Space A A K x)
          ( is-retraction-hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I)))
        ( ap
          ( λ K → map-short-function-Metric-Space A A K y)
          ( is-retraction-hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I)))
        ( is-short-map-short-function-Metric-Space
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            ( precategory-short-function-Metric-Space)
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I))
          ( d)
          ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f x)
          ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f y)
          ( H))
```

### A short map between metric spaces is an isomorphism if and only if its carrier map is an isometric equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space :
    is-isometric-equiv-Premetric-Space
      ( premetric-Metric-Space A)
      ( premetric-Metric-Space B)
      ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f) →
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f
  is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space (E , I) =
    ( short-inverse) ,
    ( ( eq-htpy-map-short-function-Metric-Space
      ( B)
      ( B)
      ( comp-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( B)
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f)
        ( short-inverse))
      ( short-id-Metric-Space B)
      ( is-section-map-inv-is-equiv E)) ,
      ( eq-htpy-map-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( A)
        ( comp-short-function-Metric-Space
          ( A)
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( short-inverse)
          ( f))
        ( short-id-Metric-Space A)
        ( is-retraction-map-inv-is-equiv E)))
      where

      short-inverse : short-function-Metric-Space B A
      short-inverse =
        short-isometry-Metric-Space
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( isometry-inv-is-equiv-isometry-Metric-Space
            ( A)
            ( B)
            ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f , I)
            ( E))
```

### A function between metric spaces is a short isomorphism if and only if it an isometric equivalence between their carrier premetric spaces

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : map-type-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    Σ ( is-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
      ( λ s →
        is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
          { A}
          { B}
          ( f , s)) ≃
    is-isometric-equiv-Premetric-Space
      (premetric-Metric-Space A)
      (premetric-Metric-Space B)
      (f)
  equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space =
    equiv-iff
      ( Σ-Prop
        ( is-short-function-prop-Metric-Space A B f)
        ( λ s →
          is-iso-prop-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( f , s)))
      ( is-isometric-equiv-prop-Premetric-Space
        ( premetric-Metric-Space A)
        ( premetric-Metric-Space B)
        ( f))
    ( λ (is-short-f , is-iso-f) →
      is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-f)
        ( is-iso-f) ,
      is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-f)
        ( is-iso-f))
    ( λ (is-equiv-f , is-isometry-f) →
      is-short-is-isometry-Metric-Space A B f is-isometry-f ,
      is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-is-isometry-Metric-Space A B f is-isometry-f)
        ( is-equiv-f , is-isometry-f))
```

### Two metric spaces are isomorphic in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps if and only if there is an isometric equivalence between them

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  where
  equiv-isometric-equiv-iso-short-function-Metric-Space' :
    iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space A B ≃
    isometric-equiv-Metric-Space' A B
  equiv-isometric-equiv-iso-short-function-Metric-Space' =
    equiv-tot
      ( equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space A B) ∘e
    associative-Σ
      ( map-type-Metric-Space A B)
      ( is-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
      ( is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B})
```

## See also

- The
  [category of metric spaces and short functions](metric-spaces.category-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions.md).

Commit message:

Refactor metric spaces (#1450)
Refactoring the metric space module (#1421)

- remove the notion of `Premetric` / `Premetric-Space`:
  
as we discussed, the term "premetric" has too many different meanings to
be reliably used in this library. What was called a `Premetric` is now a
`Rational-Neighborhood-Relation` and we only focus on (pseudo)metric
spaces.

- all (pseudo)metric spaces are saturated:

including saturation in the definition of pseudometric space is coherent
with the definition of [Richman premetric
spaces](https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/Richman+premetric+space) and makes
a lot of things _easier_ (e.g.: the limit map is short, the metric space
of Cauchy approximations in a complete metric space is complete, etc.).

- simplify hierarchy in concepts (define things for for metric spaces
first, instead of the splitting premetric>pseudometric>metric):

although a lot of concepts only depend on the underlying neighborhood
relation, they are principally useful for (pseudo)metric spaces. The
main concepts (isometries, Cauchy approximations and their limits) are
defined for pseudometric and metric spaces; other concepts (short maps,
continuity) are only defined for metric spaces but we can easily lower
them to pseudometric spaces if we ever need them.

---------

Co-authored-by: Louis Wasserman <wasserman.louis@gmail.com>

src/metric-spaces/precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions.lagda.md, after:

# The precategory of metric spaces and short functions

```agda
module metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-precategories
open import category-theory.precategories

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.binary-transport
open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.contractible-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.torsorial-type-families
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.equality-of-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometries-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-isometries
open import metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

The [short functions](metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces.md) between
[metric spaces](metric-spaces.metric-spaces.md) form a
[precategory](category-theory.precategories.md).

## Definition

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  where

  precategory-short-function-Metric-Space :
    Precategory (lsuc l1 ⊔ lsuc l2) (l1 ⊔ l2)
  precategory-short-function-Metric-Space =
    make-Precategory
      ( Metric-Space l1 l2)
      ( set-short-function-Metric-Space)
      ( λ {A B C} → comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B C)
      ( short-id-Metric-Space)
      ( λ {A B C D} → associative-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B C D)
      ( λ {A B} → left-unit-law-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
      ( λ {A B} → right-unit-law-comp-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
```

## Properties

### Isomorphisms in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps are equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f →
    is-equiv (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
  is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space (g , I , J) =
    is-equiv-is-invertible
      ( map-short-function-Metric-Space B A g)
      ( htpy-eq (ap (map-short-function-Metric-Space B B) I))
      ( htpy-eq (ap (map-short-function-Metric-Space A A) J))
```

### Isomorphisms in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps are isometries

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f →
    is-isometry-Metric-Space A B (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
  pr1 (is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space I d x y) =
    is-short-map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f d x y
  pr2 (is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space I d x y) H =
    binary-tr
      ( neighborhood-Metric-Space A d)
        ( ap
          ( λ K → map-short-function-Metric-Space A A K x)
          ( is-retraction-hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I)))
        ( ap
          ( λ K → map-short-function-Metric-Space A A K y)
          ( is-retraction-hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I)))
        ( is-short-map-short-function-Metric-Space
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( hom-inv-is-iso-Precategory
            ( precategory-short-function-Metric-Space)
            { A}
            { B}
            ( I))
          ( d)
          ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f x)
          ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f y)
          ( H))
```

### A short map between metric spaces is an isomorphism if and only if its carrier map is an isometric equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : short-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space :
    ( is-equiv (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f) ×
      is-isometry-Metric-Space A B (map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)) →
    is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B} f
  is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space (E , I) =
    ( short-inverse) ,
    ( ( eq-htpy-map-short-function-Metric-Space
      ( B)
      ( B)
      ( comp-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( B)
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f)
        ( short-inverse))
      ( short-id-Metric-Space B)
      ( is-section-map-inv-is-equiv E)) ,
      ( eq-htpy-map-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( A)
        ( comp-short-function-Metric-Space
          ( A)
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( short-inverse)
          ( f))
        ( short-id-Metric-Space A)
        ( is-retraction-map-inv-is-equiv E)))
      where

      short-inverse : short-function-Metric-Space B A
      short-inverse =
        short-isometry-Metric-Space
          ( B)
          ( A)
          ( isometry-inv-is-equiv-isometry-Metric-Space
            ( A)
            ( B)
            ( map-short-function-Metric-Space A B f , I)
            ( E))
```

### A function between metric spaces is a short isomorphism if and only if it an isometric equivalence between them

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  (f : type-function-Metric-Space A B)
  where

  equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space :
    Σ ( is-short-function-Metric-Space A B f)
      ( λ s →
        is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
          { A}
          { B}
          ( f , s)) ≃
    (is-equiv f) × (is-isometry-Metric-Space A B f)
  equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space =
    equiv-iff
      ( Σ-Prop
        ( is-short-function-prop-Metric-Space A B f)
        ( λ s →
          is-iso-prop-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space
            { A}
            { B}
            ( f , s)))
      ( product-Prop
        ( is-equiv-Prop f)
        ( is-isometry-prop-Metric-Space A B f))
    ( λ (is-short-f , is-iso-f) →
      is-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-f)
        ( is-iso-f) ,
      is-isometry-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-f)
        ( is-iso-f))
    ( λ (is-equiv-f , is-isometry-f) →
      is-short-is-isometry-Metric-Space A B f is-isometry-f ,
      is-iso-is-isometric-equiv-short-function-Metric-Space
        ( A)
        ( B)
        ( f , is-short-is-isometry-Metric-Space A B f is-isometry-f)
        ( is-equiv-f , is-isometry-f))
```

### Two metric spaces are isomorphic in the precategory of metric spaces and short maps if and only if there is an isometric equivalence between them

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (A B : Metric-Space l1 l2)
  where
  equiv-isometric-equiv-iso-short-function-Metric-Space' :
    iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space A B ≃
    isometric-equiv-Metric-Space' A B
  equiv-isometric-equiv-iso-short-function-Metric-Space' =
    equiv-tot
      ( equiv-is-isometric-equiv-is-iso-short-function-Metric-Space A B) ∘e
    associative-Σ
      ( type-function-Metric-Space A B)
      ( is-short-function-Metric-Space A B)
      ( is-iso-Precategory precategory-short-function-Metric-Space {A} {B})
```

## See also

- The
  [category of metric spaces and short functions](metric-spaces.category-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions.md).
