src/foundation/decidable-maps.lagda.md, before:

# Decidable maps

```agda
module foundation.decidable-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.natural-numbers

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.cartesian-morphisms-arrows
open import foundation.coproduct-types
open import foundation.decidable-equality
open import foundation.decidable-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.double-negation-dense-equality-maps
open import foundation.embeddings
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.functoriality-coproduct-types
open import foundation.hilbert-epsilon-operators-maps
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.iterating-functions
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.retracts-of-maps
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.contractible-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-types
open import foundation-core.empty-types
open import foundation-core.equivalences
open import foundation-core.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation-core.function-types
open import foundation-core.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation-core.homotopies
open import foundation-core.injective-maps
open import foundation-core.retractions
open import foundation-core.sections
```

</details>

## Idea

A [map](foundation-core.function-types.md) is said to be
{{#concept "decidable" Disambiguation="map of types" Agda=is-decidable-map}} if
its [fibers](foundation-core.fibers-of-maps.md) are
[decidable types](foundation.decidable-types.md).

## Definitions

### The structure on a map of decidability

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  is-decidable-map : (A → B) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  is-decidable-map f = (y : B) → is-decidable (fiber f y)
```

### The type of decidable maps

```agda
infix 5 _→ᵈ_

_→ᵈ_ : {l1 l2 : Level} (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
A →ᵈ B = Σ (A → B) (is-decidable-map)

decidable-map : {l1 l2 : Level} (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
decidable-map = _→ᵈ_

module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A →ᵈ B)
  where

  map-decidable-map : A → B
  map-decidable-map = pr1 f

  is-decidable-decidable-map : is-decidable-map map-decidable-map
  is-decidable-decidable-map = pr2 f
```

## Properties

### Decidable maps are closed under homotopy

```agda
opaque
  is-decidable-map-htpy :
    {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f g : A → B} →
    f ~ g → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-map-htpy H K b =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( equiv-tot (λ a → equiv-concat (inv (H a)) b))
      ( K b)
```

### Maps with sections are decidable

```agda
is-decidable-map-section :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} →
  (i : A → B) → section i → is-decidable-map i
is-decidable-map-section i (s , S) b = inl (s b , S b)
```

### Any map out of the empty type is decidable

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-ex-falso :
    {l : Level} {X : UU l} → is-decidable-map (ex-falso {l} {X})
  is-decidable-map-ex-falso x = inr pr1
```

### The identity map is decidable

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-id :
    {l : Level} {X : UU l} → is-decidable-map (id {l} {X})
  is-decidable-map-id y = inl (y , refl)
```

### Equivalences are decidable maps

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-is-equiv :
    {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
    is-equiv f → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-map-is-equiv H x = inl (center (is-contr-map-is-equiv H x))
```

### Composition of decidable maps

The composite of two decidable maps `g ∘ f` is decidable if `g` is injective.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3}
  {g : B → C} {f : A → B}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-comp :
      is-injective g →
      is-decidable-map g →
      is-decidable-map f →
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f)
    is-decidable-map-comp H G F x =
      rec-coproduct
        ( λ u →
          is-decidable-iff
            ( λ v → (pr1 v) , ap g (pr2 v) ∙ pr2 u)
            ( λ w → pr1 w , H (pr2 w ∙ inv (pr2 u)))
            ( F (pr1 u)))
        ( λ α → inr (λ t → α (f (pr1 t) , pr2 t)))
        ( G x)
```

The composite of two decidable maps `g ∘ f` is decidable if `g` has double
negation dense equality on fibers.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3}
  {g : B → C} {f : A → B}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map :
      has-double-negation-dense-equality-map g →
      is-decidable-map g →
      is-decidable-map f →
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f)
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map H G F x =
      is-decidable-equiv
        ( compute-fiber-comp g f x)
        ( is-decidable-Σ-has-double-negation-dense-equality-base
          ( H x)
          ( G x)
          ( F ∘ pr1))

module _
  {l1 : Level} {A : UU l1} {f : A → A}
  (is-decidable-f : is-decidable-map f)
  (H : has-double-negation-dense-equality-map f)
  where

  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map :
    (n : ℕ) → is-decidable-map (iterate n f)
  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map zero-ℕ =
    is-decidable-map-id
  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map (succ-ℕ n) =
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map
      ( H)
      ( is-decidable-f)
      ( is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map n)
```

### Left cancellation for decidable maps

If a composite `g ∘ f` is decidable and `g` is injective then `f` is decidable.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {f : A → B} {g : B → C}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-right-factor' :
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f) → is-injective g → is-decidable-map f
    is-decidable-map-right-factor' GF G y =
      rec-coproduct
        ( λ q → inl (pr1 q , G (pr2 q)))
        ( λ q → inr (λ x → q (pr1 x , ap g (pr2 x))))
        ( GF (g y))
```

### Retracts into types with decidable equality are decidable

```agda
is-decidable-map-retraction :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} → has-decidable-equality B →
  (i : A → B) → retraction i → is-decidable-map i
is-decidable-map-retraction d i (r , R) b =
  is-decidable-iff
    ( λ (p : i (r b) ＝ b) → r b , p)
    ( λ t → ap (i ∘ r) (inv (pr2 t)) ∙ ap i (R (pr1 t)) ∙ pr2 t)
    ( d (i (r b)) b)
```

### The map on total spaces induced by a family of decidable maps is decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : A → UU l2} {C : A → UU l3}
  where

  is-decidable-map-tot :
    {f : (x : A) → B x → C x} →
    ((x : A) → is-decidable-map (f x)) → is-decidable-map (tot f)
  is-decidable-map-tot {f} H x =
    is-decidable-equiv (compute-fiber-tot f x) (H (pr1 x) (pr2 x))
```

### The map on total spaces induced by a decidable map on the base is decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (C : B → UU l3)
  where

  is-decidable-map-Σ-map-base :
    {f : A → B} → is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map (map-Σ-map-base f C)
  is-decidable-map-Σ-map-base {f} H x =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-map-Σ-map-base f C x) (H (pr1 x))
```

### Products of decidable maps are decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  where

  is-decidable-map-product :
    {f : A → B} {g : C → D} →
    is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map (map-product f g)
  is-decidable-map-product {f} {g} F G x =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( compute-fiber-map-product f g x)
      ( is-decidable-product (F (pr1 x)) (G (pr2 x)))
```

### Coproducts of decidable maps are decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  where

  is-decidable-map-coproduct :
    {f : A → B} {g : C → D} →
    is-decidable-map f →
    is-decidable-map g →
    is-decidable-map (map-coproduct f g)
  is-decidable-map-coproduct {f} {g} F G (inl x) =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-inl-map-coproduct f g x) (F x)
  is-decidable-map-coproduct {f} {g} F G (inr y) =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-inr-map-coproduct f g y) (G y)
```

### Decidable maps are closed under base change

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  {f : A → B} {g : C → D}
  where

  is-decidable-map-base-change :
    cartesian-hom-arrow g f → is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map g
  is-decidable-map-base-change α F d =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( equiv-fibers-cartesian-hom-arrow g f α d)
      ( F (map-codomain-cartesian-hom-arrow g f α d))
```

### Decidable maps are closed under retracts of maps

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  {f : A → B} {g : X → Y}
  where

  is-decidable-retract-map :
    f retract-of-map g → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-retract-map R G x =
    is-decidable-retract-of
      ( retract-fiber-retract-map f g R x)
      ( G (map-codomain-inclusion-retract-map f g R x))
```

### Decidable maps have Hilbert ε-operators

A decidable map `f` induces "eliminators" on the propositional truncations of
its fibers

```text
 ε : (x : A) → ║ fiber f x ║₋₁ → fiber f x.
```

Such "eliminators" are called
[Hilbert ε-operators](foundation.hilbert-epsilon-operators-maps.md), or _split
supports_.

```agda
ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
  is-decidable-map f → ε-operator-map f
ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map F = ε-operator-is-decidable ∘ F
```

### Decidable injective maps are embeddings

**Proof.** Given a decidable map `f : A → B` then `f` decomposes
`B ≃ (im f) + B∖(im f)`. Restricting to `im f` we have a section given by the
Hilbert ε-operator on `f`. Now, by injectivity of `f` we know this restriction
map is an equivalence. Hence, `f` is a composite of embeddings and so must be an
embedding as well.

```text
    im f ╰────→ im f + B\(im f)
    ↟ ⋮              │
    │ ⋮ ~            │ ~
    │ ↓      f       ↓
     A ────────────→ B
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B}
  where

  is-emb-is-injective-is-decidable-map :
    is-decidable-map f → is-injective f → is-emb f
  is-emb-is-injective-is-decidable-map H K =
    is-emb-is-injective-ε-operator-map (ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map H) K
```

There is also an analogous proof using the double negation image. This analogous
proof avoids the use of propositional truncations, but cannot be included here
due to introducing cyclic dependencies. See
[`foundation.double-negation-images`](foundation.double-negation-images.md)
instead.

Commit message:

rename retracts of maps to retracts of arrows

src/foundation/decidable-maps.lagda.md, after:

# Decidable maps

```agda
module foundation.decidable-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.natural-numbers

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.cartesian-morphisms-arrows
open import foundation.coproduct-types
open import foundation.decidable-equality
open import foundation.decidable-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.double-negation-dense-equality-maps
open import foundation.embeddings
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.functoriality-coproduct-types
open import foundation.hilbert-epsilon-operators-maps
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.iterating-functions
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.retracts-of-arrows
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.contractible-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-types
open import foundation-core.empty-types
open import foundation-core.equivalences
open import foundation-core.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation-core.function-types
open import foundation-core.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation-core.homotopies
open import foundation-core.injective-maps
open import foundation-core.retractions
open import foundation-core.sections
```

</details>

## Idea

A [map](foundation-core.function-types.md) is said to be
{{#concept "decidable" Disambiguation="map of types" Agda=is-decidable-map}} if
its [fibers](foundation-core.fibers-of-maps.md) are
[decidable types](foundation.decidable-types.md).

## Definitions

### The structure on a map of decidability

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  is-decidable-map : (A → B) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  is-decidable-map f = (y : B) → is-decidable (fiber f y)
```

### The type of decidable maps

```agda
infix 5 _→ᵈ_

_→ᵈ_ : {l1 l2 : Level} (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
A →ᵈ B = Σ (A → B) (is-decidable-map)

decidable-map : {l1 l2 : Level} (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
decidable-map = _→ᵈ_

module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A →ᵈ B)
  where

  map-decidable-map : A → B
  map-decidable-map = pr1 f

  is-decidable-decidable-map : is-decidable-map map-decidable-map
  is-decidable-decidable-map = pr2 f
```

## Properties

### Decidable maps are closed under homotopy

```agda
opaque
  is-decidable-map-htpy :
    {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f g : A → B} →
    f ~ g → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-map-htpy H K b =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( equiv-tot (λ a → equiv-concat (inv (H a)) b))
      ( K b)
```

### Maps with sections are decidable

```agda
is-decidable-map-section :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} →
  (i : A → B) → section i → is-decidable-map i
is-decidable-map-section i (s , S) b = inl (s b , S b)
```

### Any map out of the empty type is decidable

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-ex-falso :
    {l : Level} {X : UU l} → is-decidable-map (ex-falso {l} {X})
  is-decidable-map-ex-falso x = inr pr1
```

### The identity map is decidable

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-id :
    {l : Level} {X : UU l} → is-decidable-map (id {l} {X})
  is-decidable-map-id y = inl (y , refl)
```

### Equivalences are decidable maps

```agda
abstract
  is-decidable-map-is-equiv :
    {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
    is-equiv f → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-map-is-equiv H x = inl (center (is-contr-map-is-equiv H x))
```

### Composition of decidable maps

The composite of two decidable maps `g ∘ f` is decidable if `g` is injective.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3}
  {g : B → C} {f : A → B}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-comp :
      is-injective g →
      is-decidable-map g →
      is-decidable-map f →
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f)
    is-decidable-map-comp H G F x =
      rec-coproduct
        ( λ u →
          is-decidable-iff
            ( λ v → (pr1 v) , ap g (pr2 v) ∙ pr2 u)
            ( λ w → pr1 w , H (pr2 w ∙ inv (pr2 u)))
            ( F (pr1 u)))
        ( λ α → inr (λ t → α (f (pr1 t) , pr2 t)))
        ( G x)
```

The composite of two decidable maps `g ∘ f` is decidable if `g` has double
negation dense equality on fibers.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3}
  {g : B → C} {f : A → B}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map :
      has-double-negation-dense-equality-map g →
      is-decidable-map g →
      is-decidable-map f →
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f)
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map H G F x =
      is-decidable-equiv
        ( compute-fiber-comp g f x)
        ( is-decidable-Σ-has-double-negation-dense-equality-base
          ( H x)
          ( G x)
          ( F ∘ pr1))

module _
  {l1 : Level} {A : UU l1} {f : A → A}
  (is-decidable-f : is-decidable-map f)
  (H : has-double-negation-dense-equality-map f)
  where

  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map :
    (n : ℕ) → is-decidable-map (iterate n f)
  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map zero-ℕ =
    is-decidable-map-id
  is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map (succ-ℕ n) =
    is-decidable-map-comp-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map
      ( H)
      ( is-decidable-f)
      ( is-decidable-map-iterate-has-double-negation-dense-equality-map n)
```

### Left cancellation for decidable maps

If a composite `g ∘ f` is decidable and `g` is injective then `f` is decidable.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {f : A → B} {g : B → C}
  where

  abstract
    is-decidable-map-right-factor' :
      is-decidable-map (g ∘ f) → is-injective g → is-decidable-map f
    is-decidable-map-right-factor' GF G y =
      rec-coproduct
        ( λ q → inl (pr1 q , G (pr2 q)))
        ( λ q → inr (λ x → q (pr1 x , ap g (pr2 x))))
        ( GF (g y))
```

### Retracts into types with decidable equality are decidable

```agda
is-decidable-map-retraction :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} → has-decidable-equality B →
  (i : A → B) → retraction i → is-decidable-map i
is-decidable-map-retraction d i (r , R) b =
  is-decidable-iff
    ( λ (p : i (r b) ＝ b) → r b , p)
    ( λ t → ap (i ∘ r) (inv (pr2 t)) ∙ ap i (R (pr1 t)) ∙ pr2 t)
    ( d (i (r b)) b)
```

### The map on total spaces induced by a family of decidable maps is decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : A → UU l2} {C : A → UU l3}
  where

  is-decidable-map-tot :
    {f : (x : A) → B x → C x} →
    ((x : A) → is-decidable-map (f x)) → is-decidable-map (tot f)
  is-decidable-map-tot {f} H x =
    is-decidable-equiv (compute-fiber-tot f x) (H (pr1 x) (pr2 x))
```

### The map on total spaces induced by a decidable map on the base is decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (C : B → UU l3)
  where

  is-decidable-map-Σ-map-base :
    {f : A → B} → is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map (map-Σ-map-base f C)
  is-decidable-map-Σ-map-base {f} H x =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-map-Σ-map-base f C x) (H (pr1 x))
```

### Products of decidable maps are decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  where

  is-decidable-map-product :
    {f : A → B} {g : C → D} →
    is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map (map-product f g)
  is-decidable-map-product {f} {g} F G x =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( compute-fiber-map-product f g x)
      ( is-decidable-product (F (pr1 x)) (G (pr2 x)))
```

### Coproducts of decidable maps are decidable

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  where

  is-decidable-map-coproduct :
    {f : A → B} {g : C → D} →
    is-decidable-map f →
    is-decidable-map g →
    is-decidable-map (map-coproduct f g)
  is-decidable-map-coproduct {f} {g} F G (inl x) =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-inl-map-coproduct f g x) (F x)
  is-decidable-map-coproduct {f} {g} F G (inr y) =
    is-decidable-equiv' (compute-fiber-inr-map-coproduct f g y) (G y)
```

### Decidable maps are closed under base change

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  {f : A → B} {g : C → D}
  where

  is-decidable-map-base-change :
    cartesian-hom-arrow g f → is-decidable-map f → is-decidable-map g
  is-decidable-map-base-change α F d =
    is-decidable-equiv
      ( equiv-fibers-cartesian-hom-arrow g f α d)
      ( F (map-codomain-cartesian-hom-arrow g f α d))
```

### Decidable maps are closed under retracts of arrows

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  {f : A → B} {g : X → Y}
  where

  is-decidable-retract-arrow :
    f retract-of-arrow g → is-decidable-map g → is-decidable-map f
  is-decidable-retract-arrow R G x =
    is-decidable-retract-of
      ( retract-fiber-retract-arrow f g R x)
      ( G (map-codomain-inclusion-retract-arrow f g R x))
```

### Decidable maps have Hilbert ε-operators

A decidable map `f` induces "eliminators" on the propositional truncations of
its fibers

```text
 ε : (x : A) → ║ fiber f x ║₋₁ → fiber f x.
```

Such "eliminators" are called
[Hilbert ε-operators](foundation.hilbert-epsilon-operators-maps.md), or _split
supports_.

```agda
ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
  is-decidable-map f → ε-operator-map f
ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map F = ε-operator-is-decidable ∘ F
```

### Decidable injective maps are embeddings

**Proof.** Given a decidable map `f : A → B` then `f` decomposes
`B ≃ (im f) + B∖(im f)`. Restricting to `im f` we have a section given by the
Hilbert ε-operator on `f`. Now, by injectivity of `f` we know this restriction
map is an equivalence. Hence, `f` is a composite of embeddings and so must be an
embedding as well.

```text
    im f ╰────→ im f + B\(im f)
    ↟ ⋮              │
    │ ⋮ ~            │ ~
    │ ↓      f       ↓
     A ────────────→ B
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B}
  where

  is-emb-is-injective-is-decidable-map :
    is-decidable-map f → is-injective f → is-emb f
  is-emb-is-injective-is-decidable-map H K =
    is-emb-is-injective-ε-operator-map (ε-operator-map-is-decidable-map H) K
```

There is also an analogous proof using the double negation image. This analogous
proof avoids the use of propositional truncations, but cannot be included here
due to introducing cyclic dependencies. See
[`foundation.double-negation-images`](foundation.double-negation-images.md)
instead.
