src/foundation/standard-apartness-relations.lagda.md, before:

# Standard apartness relations

```agda
module foundation.standard-apartness-relations where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.apartness-relations
open import foundation.decidable-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.law-of-excluded-middle
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.negated-equality
open import foundation.tight-apartness-relations
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.identity-types
open import foundation-core.negation
```

</details>

## Idea

An [apartness relation](foundation.apartness-relations.md) `#` is said to be
**standard** if the
[law of excluded middle](foundation.law-of-excluded-middle.md) implies that `#`
is [equivalent](foundation.logical-equivalences.md) to
[negated equality](foundation.negated-equality.md).

## Definition

```agda
is-standard-Apartness-Relation :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (l3 : Level) {A : UU l1} (R : Apartness-Relation l2 A) →
  UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ lsuc l3)
is-standard-Apartness-Relation {l1} {l2} l3 {A} R =
  LEM l3 → (x y : A) → (x ≠ y) ↔ apart-Apartness-Relation R x y
```

## Properties

### Any tight apartness relation is standard

```agda
is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} (R : Apartness-Relation l2 A) →
  is-tight-Apartness-Relation R → is-standard-Apartness-Relation l2 R
pr1 (is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation R H lem x y) np =
  double-negation-elim-is-decidable
    ( lem (rel-Apartness-Relation R x y))
    ( map-neg (H x y) np)
pr2 (is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation R H lem x .x) r refl =
  antirefl-Apartness-Relation R x r
```

## References

{{#bibliography}} {{#reference MRR88}}

Commit message:

Logic, equality, apartness, and compactness (#1264)
A lot of results in logic and foundations.

### Summary
- Types with decidable Σ-, Π-, and ∀-types
- ~Logical properties of maps~
  - ~Irrefutably surjective maps~
  - ~Propositionally double negation eliminating types~
  - ~Propositionally decidable maps~
  - ~Propositionally double negation eliminating maps~
  - ~Hilbert $\varepsilon$-operators on maps~
  - ~Double negation image~
- Double negation dense equality and applications to decidability of Σ-,
Π-, and ∀-types
- ~Propositionally decidable types~
- Infrastructure for logical properties on equality
  - Apartness relations
  - Tight apartness relations
  - Decidable equality
  - Double negation stable equality
  - Equality in decidable posets
- ~Structures on the booleans~
- Increasing binary sequences
  - The type of increasing binary sequences
  - Inequality on increasing binary sequences
  - Bounded increasing binary sequences
- ~Decidability of Σ-types over increasing binary sequences~ (currently
stashed)
- ~Dirk Gently's principle~
- Miscellaneous edits

Streaked out entries were added as part of #1387

src/foundation/standard-apartness-relations.lagda.md, after:

# Standard apartness relations

```agda
module foundation.standard-apartness-relations where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.apartness-relations
open import foundation.decidable-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.law-of-excluded-middle
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.negated-equality
open import foundation.tight-apartness-relations
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.identity-types
open import foundation-core.negation
```

</details>

## Idea

An [apartness relation](foundation.apartness-relations.md) `#` is said to be
{{#concept "standard" Disambiguation="apartness relation" Agda=is-standard-Apartness-Relation}}
if the [law of excluded middle](foundation.law-of-excluded-middle.md) implies
that `#` is [equivalent](foundation.logical-equivalences.md) to
[negated equality](foundation.negated-equality.md).

## Definition

```agda
is-standard-Apartness-Relation :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (l3 : Level) {A : UU l1} (R : Apartness-Relation l2 A) →
  UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ lsuc l3)
is-standard-Apartness-Relation {l1} {l2} l3 {A} R =
  LEM l3 → (x y : A) → (x ≠ y) ↔ apart-Apartness-Relation R x y
```

## Properties

### Any tight apartness relation is standard

```agda
is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation :
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} (R : Apartness-Relation l2 A) →
  is-tight-Apartness-Relation R → is-standard-Apartness-Relation l2 R
pr1 (is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation R H lem x y) np =
  double-negation-elim-is-decidable
    ( lem (rel-Apartness-Relation R x y))
    ( map-neg (H x y) np)
pr2 (is-standard-is-tight-Apartness-Relation R H lem x .x) r refl =
  antirefl-Apartness-Relation R x r
```

## References

{{#bibliography}} {{#reference MRR88}}
