src/foundation-core/truncated-maps.lagda.md, before:

# Truncated maps

```agda
module foundation-core.truncated-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equality-fibers-of-maps
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.commuting-squares-of-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-types
open import foundation-core.equivalences
open import foundation-core.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation-core.function-types
open import foundation-core.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation-core.homotopies
open import foundation-core.identity-types
open import foundation-core.truncated-types
open import foundation-core.truncation-levels
```

</details>

## Idea

A map is `k`-truncated if its fibers are `k`-truncated.

## Definition

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋)
  where

  is-trunc-map : {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} → (A → B) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  is-trunc-map f = (y : _) → is-trunc k (fiber f y)

  trunc-map : (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  trunc-map A B = Σ (A → B) is-trunc-map

module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {k : 𝕋} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  map-trunc-map : trunc-map k A B → A → B
  map-trunc-map = pr1

  abstract
    is-trunc-trunc-map :
      (f : trunc-map k A B) → is-trunc-map k (map-trunc-map f)
    is-trunc-trunc-map = pr2
```

## Properties

### If a map is `k`-truncated, then it is `k+1`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {f : A → B} → is-trunc-map k f → is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map k is-trunc-f b =
    is-trunc-succ-is-trunc k (is-trunc-f b)
```

### Any contractible map is `k`-truncated

```agda
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
  is-contr-map f → is-trunc-map k f
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map neg-two-𝕋 H = H
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map (succ-𝕋 k) H =
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map k (is-trunc-map-is-contr-map k H)
```

### Any equivalence is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  is-trunc-map-is-equiv :
    {f : A → B} → is-equiv f → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-equiv H =
    is-trunc-map-is-contr-map k (is-contr-map-is-equiv H)

  is-trunc-map-equiv :
    (e : A ≃ B) → is-trunc-map k (map-equiv e)
  is-trunc-map-equiv e = is-trunc-map-is-equiv (is-equiv-map-equiv e)
```

### A map is `k+1`-truncated if and only if its action on identifications is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A → B)
  where

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map-ap :
      ((x y : A) → is-trunc-map k (ap f {x} {y})) → is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f
    is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map-ap is-trunc-map-ap-f b (pair x p) (pair x' p') =
      is-trunc-equiv k
        ( fiber (ap f) (p ∙ (inv p')))
        ( equiv-fiber-ap-eq-fiber f (pair x p) (pair x' p'))
        ( is-trunc-map-ap-f x x' (p ∙ (inv p')))

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ :
      is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f → (x y : A) → is-trunc-map k (ap f {x} {y})
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ is-trunc-map-f x y p =
      is-trunc-is-equiv' k
        ( pair x p ＝ pair y refl)
        ( eq-fiber-fiber-ap f x y p)
        ( is-equiv-eq-fiber-fiber-ap f x y p)
        ( is-trunc-map-f (f y) (pair x p) (pair y refl))
```

### The domain of any `k`-truncated map into a `k+1`-truncated type is `k+1`-truncated

```agda
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A → B) →
  is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) B → is-trunc-map k f →
  is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) A
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc neg-two-𝕋 f is-trunc-B is-trunc-map-f =
  is-trunc-is-equiv _ _ f (is-equiv-is-contr-map is-trunc-map-f) is-trunc-B
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc
  (succ-𝕋 k) f is-trunc-B is-trunc-map-f a a' =
  is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc
    ( k)
    ( ap f)
    ( is-trunc-B (f a) (f a'))
    ( is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ k f is-trunc-map-f a a')
```

### A family of types is a family of `k`-truncated types if and only of the projection map is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1}
  where

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-pr1 :
      {B : A → UU l2} → ((x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)) →
      is-trunc-map k (pr1 {l1} {l2} {A} {B})
    is-trunc-map-pr1 {B} H x =
      is-trunc-equiv k (B x) (equiv-fiber-pr1 B x) (H x)

  pr1-trunc-map :
    (B : A → Truncated-Type l2 k) → trunc-map k (Σ A (λ x → pr1 (B x))) A
  pr1 (pr1-trunc-map B) = pr1
  pr2 (pr1-trunc-map B) = is-trunc-map-pr1 (λ x → pr2 (B x))

  abstract
    is-trunc-is-trunc-map-pr1 :
      (B : A → UU l2) → is-trunc-map k (pr1 {l1} {l2} {A} {B}) →
      (x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)
    is-trunc-is-trunc-map-pr1 B is-trunc-map-pr1 x =
      is-trunc-equiv k
        ( fiber pr1 x)
        ( inv-equiv-fiber-pr1 B x)
        ( is-trunc-map-pr1 x)
```

### Any map between `k`-truncated types is `k`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1}
    {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} → is-trunc k A → is-trunc k B → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain k {f = f} is-trunc-A is-trunc-B b =
    is-trunc-Σ is-trunc-A (λ x → is-trunc-Id is-trunc-B (f x) b)
```

### A type family over a `k`-truncated type A is a family of `k`-truncated types if its total space is `k`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : A → UU l2} →
    is-trunc k A → is-trunc k (Σ A B) → (x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)
  is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ k {B = B} is-trunc-A is-trunc-ΣAB x =
    is-trunc-equiv' k
      ( fiber pr1 x)
      ( equiv-fiber-pr1 B x)
      ( is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain k is-trunc-ΣAB is-trunc-A x)
```

### Truncated maps are closed under homotopies

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-htpy :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {f g : A → B} → f ~ g → is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-htpy k {A} {B} {f} {g} H is-trunc-g b =
    is-trunc-is-equiv k
      ( Σ A (λ z → g z ＝ b))
      ( fiber-triangle f g id H b)
      ( is-fiberwise-equiv-is-equiv-triangle f g id H is-equiv-id b)
      ( is-trunc-g b)
```

### Truncated maps are closed under composition

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-comp :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {X : UU l3} (g : B → X) (h : A → B) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k h → is-trunc-map k (g ∘ h)
  is-trunc-map-comp k g h is-trunc-g is-trunc-h x =
    is-trunc-is-equiv k
        ( Σ (fiber g x) (λ t → fiber h (pr1 t)))
        ( map-compute-fiber-comp g h x)
        ( is-equiv-map-compute-fiber-comp g h x)
        ( is-trunc-Σ
          ( is-trunc-g x)
          ( λ t → is-trunc-h (pr1 t)))

comp-trunc-map :
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  {X : UU l3} (g : trunc-map k B X) (h : trunc-map k A B) →
  trunc-map k A X
pr1 (comp-trunc-map k g h) = pr1 g ∘ pr1 h
pr2 (comp-trunc-map k g h) =
  is-trunc-map-comp k (pr1 g) (pr1 h) (pr2 g) (pr2 h)
```

### In a commuting triangle `f ~ g ∘ h`, if `g` and `h` are truncated maps, then `f` is a truncated map

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-left-map-triangle :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {X : UU l3} (f : A → X) (g : B → X) (h : A → B) (H : f ~ (g ∘ h)) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k h → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-left-map-triangle k f g h H is-trunc-g is-trunc-h =
    is-trunc-map-htpy k H
      ( is-trunc-map-comp k g h is-trunc-g is-trunc-h)
```

### In a commuting triangle `f ~ g ∘ h`, if `f` and `g` are truncated maps, then `h` is a truncated map

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3}
    (f : A → X) (g : B → X) (h : A → B) (H : f ~ (g ∘ h)) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k f → is-trunc-map k h
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k {A} f g h H is-trunc-g is-trunc-f b =
    is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ k
      ( is-trunc-g (g b))
      ( is-trunc-is-equiv' k
        ( Σ A (λ z → g (h z) ＝ g b))
        ( map-compute-fiber-comp g h (g b))
        ( is-equiv-map-compute-fiber-comp g h (g b))
        ( is-trunc-map-htpy k (inv-htpy H) is-trunc-f (g b)))
      ( pair b refl)
```

### If a composite `g ∘ h` and its left factor `g` are truncated maps, then its right factor `h` is a truncated map

```agda
is-trunc-map-right-factor :
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3}
  (g : B → X) (h : A → B) →
  is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k (g ∘ h) → is-trunc-map k h
is-trunc-map-right-factor k {A} g h =
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k (g ∘ h) g h refl-htpy
```

### In a commuting square with the left and right maps equivalences, the top map is truncated if and only if the bottom map is truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : A → C) (h : B → D) (i : C → D)
  (H : coherence-square-maps f g h i)
  where

  is-trunc-map-top-is-trunc-map-bottom-is-equiv :
    is-equiv g → is-equiv h → is-trunc-map k i → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-top-is-trunc-map-bottom-is-equiv K L M =
    is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k (i ∘ g) h f H
      ( is-trunc-map-is-equiv k L)
      ( is-trunc-map-comp k i g M
        ( is-trunc-map-is-equiv k K))
```

### If the domain is contractible and the codomain is `k+1`-truncated then the map is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {k : 𝕋} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B}
  where

  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-succ-codomain-is-contr-domain :
    is-contr A →
    is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) B →
    is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-succ-codomain-is-contr-domain c tB u =
    is-trunc-equiv k
      ( f (center c) ＝ u)
      ( left-unit-law-Σ-is-contr c (center c))
      ( tB (f (center c)) u)
```

Commit message:

`is-trunc-map-postcomp-extension`

src/foundation-core/truncated-maps.lagda.md, after:

# Truncated maps

```agda
module foundation-core.truncated-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equality-fibers-of-maps
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.commuting-squares-of-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-types
open import foundation-core.equivalences
open import foundation-core.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation-core.function-types
open import foundation-core.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation-core.homotopies
open import foundation-core.identity-types
open import foundation-core.truncated-types
open import foundation-core.truncation-levels
```

</details>

## Idea

A map is `k`-truncated if its fibers are `k`-truncated.

## Definition

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋)
  where

  is-trunc-map : {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} → (A → B) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  is-trunc-map f = (y : _) → is-trunc k (fiber f y)

  trunc-map : (A : UU l1) (B : UU l2) → UU (l1 ⊔ l2)
  trunc-map A B = Σ (A → B) is-trunc-map

module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {k : 𝕋} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  map-trunc-map : trunc-map k A B → A → B
  map-trunc-map = pr1

  abstract
    is-trunc-trunc-map :
      (f : trunc-map k A B) → is-trunc-map k (map-trunc-map f)
    is-trunc-trunc-map = pr2
```

## Properties

### If a map is `k`-truncated, then it is `k+1`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {f : A → B} → is-trunc-map k f → is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map k is-trunc-f b =
    is-trunc-succ-is-trunc k (is-trunc-f b)
```

### Any contractible map is `k`-truncated

```agda
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} →
  is-contr-map f → is-trunc-map k f
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map neg-two-𝕋 H = H
is-trunc-map-is-contr-map (succ-𝕋 k) H =
  is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map k (is-trunc-map-is-contr-map k H)
```

### Any equivalence is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  where

  is-trunc-map-is-equiv :
    {f : A → B} → is-equiv f → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-equiv H =
    is-trunc-map-is-contr-map k (is-contr-map-is-equiv H)

  is-trunc-map-equiv :
    (e : A ≃ B) → is-trunc-map k (map-equiv e)
  is-trunc-map-equiv e = is-trunc-map-is-equiv (is-equiv-map-equiv e)
```

### A map is `k+1`-truncated if and only if its action on identifications is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A → B)
  where

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map-ap :
      ((x y : A) → is-trunc-map k (ap f {x} {y})) → is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f
    is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map-ap is-trunc-map-ap-f b (pair x p) (pair x' p') =
      is-trunc-equiv k
        ( fiber (ap f) (p ∙ (inv p')))
        ( equiv-fiber-ap-eq-fiber f (pair x p) (pair x' p'))
        ( is-trunc-map-ap-f x x' (p ∙ (inv p')))

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ :
      is-trunc-map (succ-𝕋 k) f → (x y : A) → is-trunc-map k (ap f {x} {y})
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ is-trunc-map-f x y p =
      is-trunc-is-equiv' k
        ( pair x p ＝ pair y refl)
        ( eq-fiber-fiber-ap f x y p)
        ( is-equiv-eq-fiber-fiber-ap f x y p)
        ( is-trunc-map-f (f y) (pair x p) (pair y refl))
```

### The action on identifications of a `k`-truncated map is also `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A → B)
  where

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map :
      is-trunc-map k f → (x y : A) → is-trunc-map k (ap f {x} {y})
    is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map H =
      is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ k f (is-trunc-map-succ-is-trunc-map k H)
```

### The domain of any `k`-truncated map into a `k+1`-truncated type is `k+1`-truncated

```agda
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc :
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (f : A → B) →
  is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) B → is-trunc-map k f →
  is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) A
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc neg-two-𝕋 f is-trunc-B is-trunc-map-f =
  is-trunc-is-equiv _ _ f (is-equiv-is-contr-map is-trunc-map-f) is-trunc-B
is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc
  (succ-𝕋 k) f is-trunc-B is-trunc-map-f a a' =
  is-trunc-is-trunc-map-into-is-trunc
    ( k)
    ( ap f)
    ( is-trunc-B (f a) (f a'))
    ( is-trunc-map-ap-is-trunc-map-succ k f is-trunc-map-f a a')
```

### A family of types is a family of `k`-truncated types if and only of the projection map is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1}
  where

  abstract
    is-trunc-map-pr1 :
      {B : A → UU l2} → ((x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)) →
      is-trunc-map k (pr1 {l1} {l2} {A} {B})
    is-trunc-map-pr1 {B} H x =
      is-trunc-equiv k (B x) (equiv-fiber-pr1 B x) (H x)

  pr1-trunc-map :
    (B : A → Truncated-Type l2 k) → trunc-map k (Σ A (λ x → pr1 (B x))) A
  pr1 (pr1-trunc-map B) = pr1
  pr2 (pr1-trunc-map B) = is-trunc-map-pr1 (λ x → pr2 (B x))

  abstract
    is-trunc-is-trunc-map-pr1 :
      (B : A → UU l2) → is-trunc-map k (pr1 {l1} {l2} {A} {B}) →
      (x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)
    is-trunc-is-trunc-map-pr1 B is-trunc-map-pr1 x =
      is-trunc-equiv k
        ( fiber pr1 x)
        ( inv-equiv-fiber-pr1 B x)
        ( is-trunc-map-pr1 x)
```

### Any map between `k`-truncated types is `k`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1}
    {B : UU l2} {f : A → B} → is-trunc k A → is-trunc k B → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain k {f = f} is-trunc-A is-trunc-B b =
    is-trunc-Σ is-trunc-A (λ x → is-trunc-Id is-trunc-B (f x) b)
```

### A type family over a `k`-truncated type A is a family of `k`-truncated types if its total space is `k`-truncated

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : A → UU l2} →
    is-trunc k A → is-trunc k (Σ A B) → (x : A) → is-trunc k (B x)
  is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ k {B = B} is-trunc-A is-trunc-ΣAB x =
    is-trunc-equiv' k
      ( fiber pr1 x)
      ( equiv-fiber-pr1 B x)
      ( is-trunc-map-is-trunc-domain-codomain k is-trunc-ΣAB is-trunc-A x)
```

### Truncated maps are closed under homotopies

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-htpy :
    {l1 l2 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {f g : A → B} → f ~ g → is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-htpy k {A} {B} {f} {g} H is-trunc-g b =
    is-trunc-is-equiv k
      ( Σ A (λ z → g z ＝ b))
      ( fiber-triangle f g id H b)
      ( is-fiberwise-equiv-is-equiv-triangle f g id H is-equiv-id b)
      ( is-trunc-g b)
```

### Truncated maps are closed under composition

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-comp :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {X : UU l3} (g : B → X) (h : A → B) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k h → is-trunc-map k (g ∘ h)
  is-trunc-map-comp k g h is-trunc-g is-trunc-h x =
    is-trunc-is-equiv k
        ( Σ (fiber g x) (λ t → fiber h (pr1 t)))
        ( map-compute-fiber-comp g h x)
        ( is-equiv-map-compute-fiber-comp g h x)
        ( is-trunc-Σ
          ( is-trunc-g x)
          ( λ t → is-trunc-h (pr1 t)))

comp-trunc-map :
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
  {X : UU l3} (g : trunc-map k B X) (h : trunc-map k A B) →
  trunc-map k A X
pr1 (comp-trunc-map k g h) = pr1 g ∘ pr1 h
pr2 (comp-trunc-map k g h) =
  is-trunc-map-comp k (pr1 g) (pr1 h) (pr2 g) (pr2 h)
```

### In a commuting triangle `f ~ g ∘ h`, if `g` and `h` are truncated maps, then `f` is a truncated map

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-left-map-triangle :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2}
    {X : UU l3} (f : A → X) (g : B → X) (h : A → B) (H : f ~ (g ∘ h)) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k h → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-left-map-triangle k f g h H is-trunc-g is-trunc-h =
    is-trunc-map-htpy k H
      ( is-trunc-map-comp k g h is-trunc-g is-trunc-h)
```

### In a commuting triangle `f ~ g ∘ h`, if `f` and `g` are truncated maps, then `h` is a truncated map

```agda
abstract
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle :
    {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3}
    (f : A → X) (g : B → X) (h : A → B) (H : f ~ (g ∘ h)) →
    is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k f → is-trunc-map k h
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k {A} f g h H is-trunc-g is-trunc-f b =
    is-trunc-fam-is-trunc-Σ k
      ( is-trunc-g (g b))
      ( is-trunc-is-equiv' k
        ( Σ A (λ z → g (h z) ＝ g b))
        ( map-compute-fiber-comp g h (g b))
        ( is-equiv-map-compute-fiber-comp g h (g b))
        ( is-trunc-map-htpy k (inv-htpy H) is-trunc-f (g b)))
      ( pair b refl)
```

### If a composite `g ∘ h` and its left factor `g` are truncated maps, then its right factor `h` is a truncated map

```agda
is-trunc-map-right-factor :
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3}
  (g : B → X) (h : A → B) →
  is-trunc-map k g → is-trunc-map k (g ∘ h) → is-trunc-map k h
is-trunc-map-right-factor k {A} g h =
  is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k (g ∘ h) g h refl-htpy
```

### In a commuting square with the left and right maps equivalences, the top map is truncated if and only if the bottom map is truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} (k : 𝕋) {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {C : UU l3} {D : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : A → C) (h : B → D) (i : C → D)
  (H : coherence-square-maps f g h i)
  where

  is-trunc-map-top-is-trunc-map-bottom-is-equiv :
    is-equiv g → is-equiv h → is-trunc-map k i → is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-top-is-trunc-map-bottom-is-equiv K L M =
    is-trunc-map-top-map-triangle k (i ∘ g) h f H
      ( is-trunc-map-is-equiv k L)
      ( is-trunc-map-comp k i g M
        ( is-trunc-map-is-equiv k K))
```

### If the domain is contractible and the codomain is `k+1`-truncated then the map is `k`-truncated

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {k : 𝕋} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {f : A → B}
  where

  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-succ-codomain-is-contr-domain :
    is-contr A →
    is-trunc (succ-𝕋 k) B →
    is-trunc-map k f
  is-trunc-map-is-trunc-succ-codomain-is-contr-domain c tB u =
    is-trunc-equiv k
      ( f (center c) ＝ u)
      ( left-unit-law-Σ-is-contr c (center c))
      ( tB (f (center c)) u)
```
