tables/precategories.md, before:

| Precategory                       | File                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Abelian groups                    | [`group-theory.category-of-abelian-groups`](group-theory.category-of-abelian-groups.md)                                               |
| Commutative monoids               | [`group-theory.precategory-of-commutative-monoids`](group-theory.precategory-of-commutative-monoids.md)                               |
| Commutative rings                 | [`commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-rings`](commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-rings.md)                     |
| Commutative semirings             | [`commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-semirings`](commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-semirings.md)             |
| Concrete groups                   | [`group-theory.precategory-of-concrete-groups`](group-theory.precategory-of-concrete-groups.md)                                       |
| Decidable total orders            | [`order-theory.precategory-of-decidable-total-orders`](order-theory.precategory-of-decidable-total-orders.md)                         |
| Finite species                    | [`species.precategory-of-finite-species`](species.precategory-of-finite-species.md)                                                   |
| `G`-sets                          | [`group-theory.precategory-of-group-actions`](group-theory.precategory-of-group-actions.md)                                           |
| Groups                            | [`group-theory.precategory-of-groups`](group-theory.precategory-of-groups.md)                                                         |
| Metric spaces and functions       | [`metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-functions`](metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-functions.md)             |
| Metric spaces and isometries      | [`metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-isometries`](metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-isometries.md)           |
| Metric spaces and short functions | [`metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions`](metric-spaces.precategory-of-metric-spaces-and-short-functions.md) |
| Monoids                           | [`group-theory.precategory-of-monoids`](group-theory.precategory-of-monoids.md)                                                       |
| Posets                            | [`order-theory.precategory-of-posets`](order-theory.precategory-of-posets.md)                                                         |
| Rings                             | [`ring-theory.precategory-of-rings`](ring-theory.precategory-of-rings.md)                                                             |
| Semigroups                        | [`group-theory.precategory-of-semigroups`](group-theory.precategory-of-semigroups.md)                                                 |
| Semirings                         | [`ring-theory.precategory-of-semirings`](ring-theory.precategory-of-semirings.md)                                                     |
| Sets                              | [`foundation.category-of-sets`](foundation.category-of-sets.md)                                                                       |
| Total orders                      | [`order-theory.precategory-of-total-orders`](order-theory.precategory-of-total-orders.md)                                             |

Commit message:

Update category theory tables and define category of simplicial sets (#1440)

tables/precategories.md, after:

| Precategory                               | File                                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Algebras of a monad on a precategory      | [`category-theory.precategory-of-algebras-monads-on-precategories`](category-theory.precategory-of-algebras-monads-on-precategories.md)           |
| Augmented simplex precategory             | [`category-theory.augmented-simplex-category`](category-theory.augmented-simplex-category.md)                                                     |
| Commutative monoids                       | [`group-theory.precategory-of-commutative-monoids`](group-theory.precategory-of-commutative-monoids.md)                                           |
| Commutative semirings                     | [`commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-semirings`](commutative-algebra.precategory-of-commutative-semirings.md)                         |
| Concrete groups                           | [`group-theory.precategory-of-concrete-groups`](group-theory.precategory-of-concrete-groups.md)                                                   |
| Decidable total orders                    | [`order-theory.precategory-of-decidable-total-orders`](order-theory.precategory-of-decidable-total-orders.md)                                     |
| Finite posets                             | [`order-theory.precategory-of-finite-posets`](order-theory.precategory-of-finite-posets.md)                                                       |
| Finite species                            | [`species.precategory-of-finite-species`](species.precategory-of-finite-species.md)                                                               |
| Free algebras of a monad on a precategory | [`category-theory.precategory-of-free-algebras-monads-on-precategories`](category-theory.precategory-of-free-algebras-monads-on-precategories.md) |
| Monoids                                   | [`group-theory.precategory-of-monoids`](group-theory.precategory-of-monoids.md)                                                                   |
| Orbits of a monoid action                 | [`group-theory.precategory-of-orbits-monoid-actions`](group-theory.precategory-of-orbits-monoid-actions.md)                                       |
| Posets                                    | [`order-theory.precategory-of-posets`](order-theory.precategory-of-posets.md)                                                                     |
| Semirings                                 | [`ring-theory.precategory-of-semirings`](ring-theory.precategory-of-semirings.md)                                                                 |
| Simplex precategory                       | [`category-theory.simplex-category`](category-theory.simplex-category.md)                                                                         |
| Total orders                              | [`order-theory.precategory-of-total-orders`](order-theory.precategory-of-total-orders.md)                                                         |
