src/orthogonal-factorization-systems/types-local-at-maps.lagda.md, before:

# Types local at maps

```agda
module orthogonal-factorization-systems.types-local-at-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.commuting-squares-of-maps
open import foundation.commuting-triangles-of-maps
open import foundation.contractible-maps
open import foundation.contractible-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.dependent-universal-property-equivalences
open import foundation.embeddings
open import foundation.empty-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.families-of-equivalences
open import foundation.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.postcomposition-functions
open import foundation.precomposition-dependent-functions
open import foundation.precomposition-functions
open import foundation.propositional-maps
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.retractions
open import foundation.retracts-of-maps
open import foundation.retracts-of-types
open import foundation.sections
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-function-types
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-unit-type
open import foundation.unit-type
open import foundation.universal-property-empty-type
open import foundation.universal-property-equivalences
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.extensions-dependent-maps
open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.extensions-maps
```

</details>

## Idea

A dependent type `A` over `Y` is said to be
{{#concept "local at" Disambiguation="map of types"}} `f : X → Y`, or
{{#concept "`f`-local" Disambiguation="map of types"}} , if the
[precomposition map](foundation-core.function-types.md)

```text
  - ∘ f : ((y : Y) → A y) → ((x : X) → A (f x))
```

is an [equivalence](foundation-core.equivalences.md).

We reserve the name `is-local` for when `A` does not vary over `Y`, and specify
with `is-local-dependent-type` when it does.

Note that a local dependent type is not the same as a
[local family](orthogonal-factorization-systems.families-of-types-local-at-maps.md).
While a local family is a type family `P` on some other indexing type `A`, such
that each fiber is local as a nondependent type over `Y`, a local dependent type
is a local type that additionally may vary over `Y`. Concretely, a local
dependent type `A` may be understood as a family of types such that for every
`y : Y`, `A y` is
`fiber f y`-[null](orthogonal-factorization-systems.null-types.md).

## Definition

### Local dependent types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y) (A : Y → UU l3)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local-dependent-type = is-equiv (precomp-Π f A)

  is-property-is-local-dependent-type : is-prop is-local-dependent-type
  is-property-is-local-dependent-type = is-property-is-equiv (precomp-Π f A)

  is-local-dependent-type-Prop : Prop (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  pr1 is-local-dependent-type-Prop = is-local-dependent-type
  pr2 is-local-dependent-type-Prop = is-property-is-local-dependent-type
```

### Local types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y) (A : UU l3)
  where

  is-local : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local = is-local-dependent-type f (λ _ → A)

  is-property-is-local : is-prop is-local
  is-property-is-local = is-property-is-local-dependent-type f (λ _ → A)

  is-local-Prop : Prop (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local-Prop = is-local-dependent-type-Prop f (λ _ → A)
```

## Properties

### Every map has a unique extension along `i` if and only if `P` is `i`-local

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (i : A → B)
  {l : Level} (P : B → UU l)
  where

  equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map :
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) →
    fiber' (precomp-Π i P) f ≃ extension-dependent-map i P f
  equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map f =
    equiv-tot (λ g → equiv-funext {f = f} {g ∘ i})

  equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map :
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) →
    fiber (precomp-Π i P) f ≃ extension-dependent-map i P f
  equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map f =
    ( equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map f) ∘e
    ( equiv-fiber (precomp-Π i P) f)

  equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type :
    is-local-dependent-type i P ≃
    ((f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f))
  equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type =
    ( equiv-Π-equiv-family
      ( equiv-is-contr-equiv ∘ equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map)) ∘e
    ( equiv-is-contr-map-is-equiv (precomp-Π i P))

  is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type :
    is-local-dependent-type i P →
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f)
  is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type =
    map-equiv equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type

  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map :
    ((f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f)) →
    is-local-dependent-type i P
  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map =
    map-inv-equiv
      equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type
```

### Every map has a unique extension along `i` if and only if `P` is `i`-local

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (i : A → B)
  {l : Level} {C : UU l}
  where

  is-contr-extension-map-is-local :
    is-local i C → (f : A → C) → is-contr (extension-map i f)
  is-contr-extension-map-is-local =
    is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type i (λ _ → C)

  is-local-is-contr-extension-map :
    ((f : A → C) → is-contr (extension-map i f)) → is-local i C
  is-local-is-contr-extension-map =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map i (λ _ → C)
```

### Local types are closed under equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : Y → UU l3} {B : Y → UU l4}
  (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv :
    fam-equiv A B → is-local-dependent-type f B → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv e is-local-B =
    is-equiv-htpy-equiv
      ( ( equiv-Π-equiv-family (inv-equiv ∘ e ∘ f)) ∘e
        ( precomp-Π f B , is-local-B) ∘e
        ( equiv-Π-equiv-family e))
      ( λ g →
        eq-htpy (λ y → inv (is-retraction-map-inv-equiv (e (f y)) (g (f y)))))

  is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv :
    fam-equiv B A → is-local-dependent-type f B → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv e =
    is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv (inv-equiv ∘ e)

module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {B : UU l4}
  (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-equiv : A ≃ B → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-equiv e = is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv f (λ _ → e)

  is-local-inv-equiv : B ≃ A → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-inv-equiv e = is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv f (λ _ → e)
```

### Local types are closed under retracts

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {B : UU l4}
  {f : X → Y}
  where

  is-local-retract : A retract-of B → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-retract R =
    is-equiv-retract-map-is-equiv'
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp f B)
      ( retract-postcomp Y R)
      ( retract-postcomp X R)
      ( refl-htpy)
      ( refl-htpy)
```

### Locality is preserved by homotopies of functions

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {f f' : X → Y}
  where

  is-local-htpy : (H : f ~ f') → is-local f' A → is-local f A
  is-local-htpy H = is-equiv-htpy (precomp f' A) (htpy-precomp H A)

  is-local-htpy' : (H : f ~ f') → is-local f A → is-local f' A
  is-local-htpy' H = is-equiv-htpy' (precomp f A) (htpy-precomp H A)
```

### If `S` is `f`-local then `S` is local at every retract of `f`

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 l5 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : X → Y) (R : f retract-of-map g) (S : UU l5)
  where

  is-local-retract-map-is-local : is-local g S → is-local f S
  is-local-retract-map-is-local =
    is-equiv-retract-map-is-equiv
      ( precomp f S)
      ( precomp g S)
      ( retract-map-precomp-retract-map f g R S)
```

In fact, the higher coherence of the retract is not needed:

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 l5 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : X → Y) (R₀ : A retract-of X) (R₁ : B retract-of Y)
  (i : coherence-square-maps' (inclusion-retract R₀) f g (inclusion-retract R₁))
  (r :
    coherence-square-maps'
      ( map-retraction-retract R₀)
      ( g)
      ( f)
      ( map-retraction-retract R₁))
  (S : UU l5)
  where

  is-local-retract-map-is-local' : is-local g S → is-local f S
  is-local-retract-map-is-local' =
    is-equiv-retract-map-is-equiv'
      ( precomp f S)
      ( precomp g S)
      ( retract-precomp R₁ S)
      ( retract-precomp R₀ S)
      ( precomp-coherence-square-maps
        ( g)
        ( map-retraction-retract R₀)
        ( map-retraction-retract R₁)
        ( f)
        ( r)
        ( S))
      ( precomp-coherence-square-maps
        ( f)
        ( inclusion-retract R₀)
        ( inclusion-retract R₁)
        ( g)
        ( i)
        ( S))
```

### If every type is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-equiv-is-local : ({l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local f A) → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-local = is-equiv-is-equiv-precomp f
```

### If the domain and codomain of `f` is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

More generally, this is true as soon as the precomposition map of `f` has a
section at `X` and is an embedding at `Y`.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-emb (precomp f Y) → section f
  pr1 (section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX _) =
    pr1 sX id
  pr2 (section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY) =
    htpy-eq
      ( ap
        ( pr1)
        { f ∘ pr1 sX id , ap (postcomp X f) (pr2 sX id)}
        { id , refl}
        ( eq-is-prop (is-prop-map-is-emb eY f)))

  section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-local f Y → section f
  section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX lY =
    section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX (is-emb-is-equiv lY)

  is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-emb (precomp f Y) → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY =
    ( section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY ,
      retraction-map-section-precomp f sX)

  is-equiv-is-local-domains : is-local f X → is-local f Y → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-local-domains lX lY =
    is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain
      ( section-is-equiv lX)
      ( is-emb-is-equiv lY)
```

### If `f` has a retraction and the codomain of `f` is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-equiv-retraction-is-local-codomain :
    retraction f → is-local f Y → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-retraction-is-local-codomain r is-local-Y =
    section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain f
      ( section-precomp-retraction-map f r)
      ( is-local-Y) ,
    r
```

### Propositions are `f`-local if `- ∘ f` has a converse

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-prop :
    {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) →
    ((y : Y) → is-prop (A y)) →
    (((x : X) → A (f x)) → ((y : Y) → A y)) →
    is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-prop A is-prop-A =
    is-equiv-has-converse-is-prop
      ( is-prop-Π is-prop-A)
      ( is-prop-Π (is-prop-A ∘ f))

  is-local-is-prop :
    {l : Level} (A : UU l) →
    is-prop A → ((X → A) → (Y → A)) → is-local f A
  is-local-is-prop A is-prop-A =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-prop (λ _ → A) (λ _ → is-prop-A)
```

### All types are local at equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-equiv :
    is-equiv f → {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-equiv is-equiv-f =
    is-equiv-precomp-Π-is-equiv is-equiv-f

  is-local-is-equiv :
    is-equiv f → {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local f A
  is-local-is-equiv is-equiv-f = is-equiv-precomp-is-equiv f is-equiv-f
```

### Contractible types are local at any map

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr :
    {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) →
    ((y : Y) → is-contr (A y)) → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr A is-contr-A =
    is-equiv-is-contr
      ( precomp-Π f A)
      ( is-contr-Π is-contr-A)
      ( is-contr-Π (is-contr-A ∘ f))

  is-local-is-contr :
    {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-contr A → is-local f A
  is-local-is-contr A is-contr-A =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-contr (λ _ → A) (λ _ → is-contr-A)
```

### A type that is local at the unique map `empty → unit` is contractible

```agda
is-contr-is-local :
  {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local (λ (_ : empty) → star) A → is-contr A
is-contr-is-local A is-local-A =
  is-contr-equiv
    ( empty → A)
    ( (precomp (λ _ → star) A , is-local-A) ∘e inv-left-unit-law-Π (λ _ → A))
    ( universal-property-empty' A)
```

### The 3-for-2 property of local types

Given a [commuting triangle](foundation-core.commuting-triangles-of-maps.md) of
maps

```text
        f
   X ------> Y
    \       /
   h \     / g
      \   /
       ∨ ∨
        Z,
```

then if `A` is local at two of the maps then it is local at all three.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {Z : UU l3} {A : UU l4}
  {f : X → Y} {g : Y → Z}
  where

  is-local-comp : is-local g A → is-local f A → is-local (g ∘ f) A
  is-local-comp G F = is-equiv-comp (precomp f A) (precomp g A) G F

  is-local-left-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local g A → is-local f A → is-local h A
  is-local-left-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-left-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)

  is-local-right-factor :
    is-local (g ∘ f) A → is-local g A → is-local f A
  is-local-right-factor = is-equiv-left-factor (precomp f A) (precomp g A)

  is-local-top-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local h A → is-local g A → is-local f A
  is-local-top-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-right-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)

  is-local-left-factor :
    is-local f A → is-local (g ∘ f) A → is-local g A
  is-local-left-factor = is-equiv-right-factor (precomp f A) (precomp g A)

  is-local-right-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local f A → is-local h A → is-local g A
  is-local-right-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-top-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)
```

### Locality distributes over Π-types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type :
    {l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l3} (B : A → Y → UU l4) →
    ((a : A) → is-local-dependent-type f (B a)) →
    is-local-dependent-type f (λ x → (a : A) → B a x)
  distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type B f-loc =
    is-equiv-map-equiv
      ( ( equiv-swap-Π) ∘e
        ( equiv-Π-equiv-family (λ a → precomp-Π f (B a) , (f-loc a))) ∘e
        ( equiv-swap-Π))

  distributive-Π-is-local :
    {l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l3} (B : A → UU l4) →
    ((a : A) → is-local f (B a)) →
    is-local f ((a : A) → B a)
  distributive-Π-is-local B =
    distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type (λ a _ → B a)
```

## See also

- [Local maps](orthogonal-factorization-systems.maps-local-at-maps.md)
- [Localizations with respect to maps](orthogonal-factorization-systems.localizations-at-maps.md)
- [Localizations with respect to subuniverses](orthogonal-factorization-systems.localizations-at-subuniverses.md)

Commit message:

rename retracts of maps to retracts of arrows

src/orthogonal-factorization-systems/types-local-at-maps.lagda.md, after:

# Types local at maps

```agda
module orthogonal-factorization-systems.types-local-at-maps where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.commuting-squares-of-maps
open import foundation.commuting-triangles-of-maps
open import foundation.contractible-maps
open import foundation.contractible-types
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.dependent-universal-property-equivalences
open import foundation.embeddings
open import foundation.empty-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.families-of-equivalences
open import foundation.fibers-of-maps
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.postcomposition-functions
open import foundation.precomposition-dependent-functions
open import foundation.precomposition-functions
open import foundation.propositional-maps
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.retractions
open import foundation.retracts-of-arrows
open import foundation.retracts-of-types
open import foundation.sections
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-dependent-function-types
open import foundation.type-arithmetic-unit-type
open import foundation.unit-type
open import foundation.universal-property-empty-type
open import foundation.universal-property-equivalences
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.extensions-dependent-maps
open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.extensions-maps
```

</details>

## Idea

A dependent type `A` over `Y` is said to be
{{#concept "local at" Disambiguation="map of types"}} `f : X → Y`, or
{{#concept "`f`-local" Disambiguation="map of types"}} , if the
[precomposition map](foundation-core.function-types.md)

```text
  - ∘ f : ((y : Y) → A y) → ((x : X) → A (f x))
```

is an [equivalence](foundation-core.equivalences.md).

We reserve the name `is-local` for when `A` does not vary over `Y`, and specify
with `is-local-dependent-type` when it does.

Note that a local dependent type is not the same as a
[local family](orthogonal-factorization-systems.families-of-types-local-at-maps.md).
While a local family is a type family `P` on some other indexing type `A`, such
that each fiber is local as a nondependent type over `Y`, a local dependent type
is a local type that additionally may vary over `Y`. Concretely, a local
dependent type `A` may be understood as a family of types such that for every
`y : Y`, `A y` is
`fiber f y`-[null](orthogonal-factorization-systems.null-types.md).

## Definition

### Local dependent types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y) (A : Y → UU l3)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local-dependent-type = is-equiv (precomp-Π f A)

  is-property-is-local-dependent-type : is-prop is-local-dependent-type
  is-property-is-local-dependent-type = is-property-is-equiv (precomp-Π f A)

  is-local-dependent-type-Prop : Prop (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  pr1 is-local-dependent-type-Prop = is-local-dependent-type
  pr2 is-local-dependent-type-Prop = is-property-is-local-dependent-type
```

### Local types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y) (A : UU l3)
  where

  is-local : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local = is-local-dependent-type f (λ _ → A)

  is-property-is-local : is-prop is-local
  is-property-is-local = is-property-is-local-dependent-type f (λ _ → A)

  is-local-Prop : Prop (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3)
  is-local-Prop = is-local-dependent-type-Prop f (λ _ → A)
```

## Properties

### Every map has a unique extension along `i` if and only if `P` is `i`-local

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (i : A → B)
  {l : Level} (P : B → UU l)
  where

  equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map :
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) →
    fiber' (precomp-Π i P) f ≃ extension-dependent-map i P f
  equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map f =
    equiv-tot (λ g → equiv-funext {f = f} {g ∘ i})

  equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map :
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) →
    fiber (precomp-Π i P) f ≃ extension-dependent-map i P f
  equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map f =
    ( equiv-fiber'-precomp-extension-dependent-map f) ∘e
    ( equiv-fiber (precomp-Π i P) f)

  equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type :
    is-local-dependent-type i P ≃
    ((f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f))
  equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type =
    ( equiv-Π-equiv-family
      ( equiv-is-contr-equiv ∘ equiv-fiber-precomp-extension-dependent-map)) ∘e
    ( equiv-is-contr-map-is-equiv (precomp-Π i P))

  is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type :
    is-local-dependent-type i P →
    (f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f)
  is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type =
    map-equiv equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type

  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map :
    ((f : (x : A) → P (i x)) → is-contr (extension-dependent-map i P f)) →
    is-local-dependent-type i P
  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map =
    map-inv-equiv
      equiv-is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type
```

### Every map has a unique extension along `i` if and only if `P` is `i`-local

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} (i : A → B)
  {l : Level} {C : UU l}
  where

  is-contr-extension-map-is-local :
    is-local i C → (f : A → C) → is-contr (extension-map i f)
  is-contr-extension-map-is-local =
    is-contr-extension-dependent-map-is-local-dependent-type i (λ _ → C)

  is-local-is-contr-extension-map :
    ((f : A → C) → is-contr (extension-map i f)) → is-local i C
  is-local-is-contr-extension-map =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-contr-extension-dependent-map i (λ _ → C)
```

### Local types are closed under equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : Y → UU l3} {B : Y → UU l4}
  (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv :
    fam-equiv A B → is-local-dependent-type f B → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv e is-local-B =
    is-equiv-htpy-equiv
      ( ( equiv-Π-equiv-family (inv-equiv ∘ e ∘ f)) ∘e
        ( precomp-Π f B , is-local-B) ∘e
        ( equiv-Π-equiv-family e))
      ( λ g →
        eq-htpy (λ y → inv (is-retraction-map-inv-equiv (e (f y)) (g (f y)))))

  is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv :
    fam-equiv B A → is-local-dependent-type f B → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv e =
    is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv (inv-equiv ∘ e)

module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {B : UU l4}
  (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-equiv : A ≃ B → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-equiv e = is-local-dependent-type-fam-equiv f (λ _ → e)

  is-local-inv-equiv : B ≃ A → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-inv-equiv e = is-local-dependent-type-inv-fam-equiv f (λ _ → e)
```

### Local types are closed under retracts

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {B : UU l4}
  {f : X → Y}
  where

  is-local-retract : A retract-of B → is-local f B → is-local f A
  is-local-retract R =
    is-equiv-retract-arrow-is-equiv'
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp f B)
      ( retract-postcomp Y R)
      ( retract-postcomp X R)
      ( refl-htpy)
      ( refl-htpy)
```

### Locality is preserved by homotopies of functions

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {A : UU l3} {f f' : X → Y}
  where

  is-local-htpy : (H : f ~ f') → is-local f' A → is-local f A
  is-local-htpy H = is-equiv-htpy (precomp f' A) (htpy-precomp H A)

  is-local-htpy' : (H : f ~ f') → is-local f A → is-local f' A
  is-local-htpy' H = is-equiv-htpy' (precomp f A) (htpy-precomp H A)
```

### If `S` is `f`-local then `S` is local at every retract of `f`

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 l5 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : X → Y) (R : f retract-of-arrow g) (S : UU l5)
  where

  is-local-retract-arrow-is-local : is-local g S → is-local f S
  is-local-retract-arrow-is-local =
    is-equiv-retract-arrow-is-equiv
      ( precomp f S)
      ( precomp g S)
      ( retract-arrow-precomp-retract-arrow f g R S)
```

In fact, the higher coherence of the retract is not needed:

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 l5 : Level} {A : UU l1} {B : UU l2} {X : UU l3} {Y : UU l4}
  (f : A → B) (g : X → Y) (R₀ : A retract-of X) (R₁ : B retract-of Y)
  (i : coherence-square-maps' (inclusion-retract R₀) f g (inclusion-retract R₁))
  (r :
    coherence-square-maps'
      ( map-retraction-retract R₀)
      ( g)
      ( f)
      ( map-retraction-retract R₁))
  (S : UU l5)
  where

  is-local-retract-arrow-is-local' : is-local g S → is-local f S
  is-local-retract-arrow-is-local' =
    is-equiv-retract-arrow-is-equiv'
      ( precomp f S)
      ( precomp g S)
      ( retract-precomp R₁ S)
      ( retract-precomp R₀ S)
      ( precomp-coherence-square-maps
        ( g)
        ( map-retraction-retract R₀)
        ( map-retraction-retract R₁)
        ( f)
        ( r)
        ( S))
      ( precomp-coherence-square-maps
        ( f)
        ( inclusion-retract R₀)
        ( inclusion-retract R₁)
        ( g)
        ( i)
        ( S))
```

### If every type is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-equiv-is-local : ({l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local f A) → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-local = is-equiv-is-equiv-precomp f
```

### If the domain and codomain of `f` is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

More generally, this is true as soon as the precomposition map of `f` has a
section at `X` and is an embedding at `Y`.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-emb (precomp f Y) → section f
  pr1 (section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX _) =
    pr1 sX id
  pr2 (section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY) =
    htpy-eq
      ( ap
        ( pr1)
        { f ∘ pr1 sX id , ap (postcomp X f) (pr2 sX id)}
        { id , refl}
        ( eq-is-prop (is-prop-map-is-emb eY f)))

  section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-local f Y → section f
  section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX lY =
    section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX (is-emb-is-equiv lY)

  is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain :
    section (precomp f X) → is-emb (precomp f Y) → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY =
    ( section-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain sX eY ,
      retraction-map-section-precomp f sX)

  is-equiv-is-local-domains : is-local f X → is-local f Y → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-is-local-domains lX lY =
    is-equiv-is-epi-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain
      ( section-is-equiv lX)
      ( is-emb-is-equiv lY)
```

### If `f` has a retraction and the codomain of `f` is `f`-local, then `f` is an equivalence

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-equiv-retraction-is-local-codomain :
    retraction f → is-local f Y → is-equiv f
  is-equiv-retraction-is-local-codomain r is-local-Y =
    section-is-local-at-codomain-section-precomp-domain f
      ( section-precomp-retraction-map f r)
      ( is-local-Y) ,
    r
```

### Propositions are `f`-local if `- ∘ f` has a converse

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-prop :
    {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) →
    ((y : Y) → is-prop (A y)) →
    (((x : X) → A (f x)) → ((y : Y) → A y)) →
    is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-prop A is-prop-A =
    is-equiv-has-converse-is-prop
      ( is-prop-Π is-prop-A)
      ( is-prop-Π (is-prop-A ∘ f))

  is-local-is-prop :
    {l : Level} (A : UU l) →
    is-prop A → ((X → A) → (Y → A)) → is-local f A
  is-local-is-prop A is-prop-A =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-prop (λ _ → A) (λ _ → is-prop-A)
```

### All types are local at equivalences

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-equiv :
    is-equiv f → {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-equiv is-equiv-f =
    is-equiv-precomp-Π-is-equiv is-equiv-f

  is-local-is-equiv :
    is-equiv f → {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local f A
  is-local-is-equiv is-equiv-f = is-equiv-precomp-is-equiv f is-equiv-f
```

### Contractible types are local at any map

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr :
    {l : Level} (A : Y → UU l) →
    ((y : Y) → is-contr (A y)) → is-local-dependent-type f A
  is-local-dependent-type-is-contr A is-contr-A =
    is-equiv-is-contr
      ( precomp-Π f A)
      ( is-contr-Π is-contr-A)
      ( is-contr-Π (is-contr-A ∘ f))

  is-local-is-contr :
    {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-contr A → is-local f A
  is-local-is-contr A is-contr-A =
    is-local-dependent-type-is-contr (λ _ → A) (λ _ → is-contr-A)
```

### A type that is local at the unique map `empty → unit` is contractible

```agda
is-contr-is-local :
  {l : Level} (A : UU l) → is-local (λ (_ : empty) → star) A → is-contr A
is-contr-is-local A is-local-A =
  is-contr-equiv
    ( empty → A)
    ( (precomp (λ _ → star) A , is-local-A) ∘e inv-left-unit-law-Π (λ _ → A))
    ( universal-property-empty' A)
```

### The 3-for-2 property of local types

Given a [commuting triangle](foundation-core.commuting-triangles-of-maps.md) of
maps

```text
        f
   X ------> Y
    \       /
   h \     / g
      \   /
       ∨ ∨
        Z,
```

then if `A` is local at two of the maps then it is local at all three.

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} {Z : UU l3} {A : UU l4}
  {f : X → Y} {g : Y → Z}
  where

  is-local-comp : is-local g A → is-local f A → is-local (g ∘ f) A
  is-local-comp G F = is-equiv-comp (precomp f A) (precomp g A) G F

  is-local-left-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local g A → is-local f A → is-local h A
  is-local-left-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-left-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)

  is-local-right-factor :
    is-local (g ∘ f) A → is-local g A → is-local f A
  is-local-right-factor = is-equiv-left-factor (precomp f A) (precomp g A)

  is-local-top-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local h A → is-local g A → is-local f A
  is-local-top-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-right-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)

  is-local-left-factor :
    is-local f A → is-local (g ∘ f) A → is-local g A
  is-local-left-factor = is-equiv-right-factor (precomp f A) (precomp g A)

  is-local-right-map-triangle :
    {h : X → Z} → coherence-triangle-maps h g f →
    is-local f A → is-local h A → is-local g A
  is-local-right-map-triangle {h} K =
    is-equiv-top-map-triangle
      ( precomp h A)
      ( precomp f A)
      ( precomp g A)
      ( htpy-precomp K A)
```

### Locality distributes over Π-types

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level} {X : UU l1} {Y : UU l2} (f : X → Y)
  where

  distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type :
    {l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l3} (B : A → Y → UU l4) →
    ((a : A) → is-local-dependent-type f (B a)) →
    is-local-dependent-type f (λ x → (a : A) → B a x)
  distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type B f-loc =
    is-equiv-map-equiv
      ( ( equiv-swap-Π) ∘e
        ( equiv-Π-equiv-family (λ a → precomp-Π f (B a) , (f-loc a))) ∘e
        ( equiv-swap-Π))

  distributive-Π-is-local :
    {l3 l4 : Level} {A : UU l3} (B : A → UU l4) →
    ((a : A) → is-local f (B a)) →
    is-local f ((a : A) → B a)
  distributive-Π-is-local B =
    distributive-Π-is-local-dependent-type (λ a _ → B a)
```

## See also

- [Local maps](orthogonal-factorization-systems.maps-local-at-maps.md)
- [Localizations with respect to maps](orthogonal-factorization-systems.localizations-at-maps.md)
- [Localizations with respect to subuniverses](orthogonal-factorization-systems.localizations-at-subuniverses.md)
