src/category-theory.lagda.md, before:

# Category theory

## Examples of categories and large categories

{{#include tables/categories.md}}

## Examples of precategories and large precategories

{{#include tables/precategories.md}}

## Modules in the category theory namespace

```agda
module category-theory where

open import category-theory.adjunctions-large-categories public
open import category-theory.adjunctions-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.adjunctions-precategories public
open import category-theory.algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.anafunctors-categories public
open import category-theory.anafunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.augmented-simplex-category public
open import category-theory.categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-functors public
open import category-theory.category-of-functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-maps-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.cocones-precategories public
open import category-theory.codensity-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.colimits-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.commuting-triangles-of-morphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-triangles-of-morphisms-in-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.complete-precategories public
open import category-theory.composition-operations-on-binary-families-of-sets public
open import category-theory.cones-precategories public
open import category-theory.conservative-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.constant-functors public
open import category-theory.copointed-endofunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.copresheaf-categories public
open import category-theory.coproducts-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.cores-categories public
open import category-theory.cores-precategories public
open import category-theory.coslice-precategories public
open import category-theory.density-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-composition-operations-over-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-categories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-large-categories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.discrete-categories public
open import category-theory.displayed-precategories public
open import category-theory.embedding-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.embeddings-precategories public
open import category-theory.endomorphisms-in-categories public
open import category-theory.endomorphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.epimorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-categories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.essential-fibers-of-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.essentially-injective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.essentially-surjective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.exponential-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.extensions-of-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.faithful-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.faithful-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-large-subcategories public
open import category-theory.full-large-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.full-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-subcategories public
open import category-theory.full-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.fully-faithful-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.fully-faithful-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.function-categories public
open import category-theory.function-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-large-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-nonunital-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.gaunt-categories public
open import category-theory.groupoids public
open import category-theory.homotopies-natural-transformations-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.indiscrete-precategories public
open import category-theory.initial-category public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-large-categories public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphism-induction-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphism-induction-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-large-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.large-categories public
open import category-theory.large-function-categories public
open import category-theory.large-function-precategories public
open import category-theory.large-precategories public
open import category-theory.large-subcategories public
open import category-theory.large-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.left-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.left-kan-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.limits-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-categories public
open import category-theory.maps-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.monads-on-categories public
open import category-theory.monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.monomorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.morphisms-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.morphisms-coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-numbers-object-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-large-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.nonunital-precategories public
open import category-theory.one-object-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-categories public
open import category-theory.opposite-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.opposite-strongly-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.pointed-endofunctors-categories public
open import category-theory.pointed-endofunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-elements-of-a-presheaf public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-free-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-functors public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.pregroupoids public
open import category-theory.presheaf-categories public
open import category-theory.preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.products-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.products-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.pseudomonic-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.pullbacks-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.replete-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.representing-arrow-category public
open import category-theory.restrictions-functors-cores-precategories public
open import category-theory.right-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.right-kan-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.rigid-objects-categories public
open import category-theory.rigid-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.sieves-in-categories public
open import category-theory.simplex-category public
open import category-theory.slice-precategories public
open import category-theory.split-essentially-surjective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.strict-categories public
open import category-theory.strongly-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.structure-equivalences-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.subcategories public
open import category-theory.subprecategories public
open import category-theory.subterminal-precategories public
open import category-theory.terminal-category public
open import category-theory.terminal-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.wide-subcategories public
open import category-theory.wide-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.yoneda-lemma-categories public
open import category-theory.yoneda-lemma-precategories public
```

Commit message:

Update category theory tables and define category of simplicial sets (#1440)

src/category-theory.lagda.md, after:

# Category theory

## Examples of categories and large categories

{{#include tables/categories.md}}

## Examples of precategories and large precategories

C.f. also the list above.

{{#include tables/precategories.md}}

## Modules in the category theory namespace

```agda
module category-theory where

open import category-theory.adjunctions-large-categories public
open import category-theory.adjunctions-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.adjunctions-precategories public
open import category-theory.algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.anafunctors-categories public
open import category-theory.anafunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.augmented-simplex-category public
open import category-theory.categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-functors public
open import category-theory.category-of-functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-maps-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.category-of-simplicial-sets public
open import category-theory.coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.cocones-precategories public
open import category-theory.codensity-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.colimits-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-squares-of-morphisms-in-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.commuting-triangles-of-morphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.commuting-triangles-of-morphisms-in-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.complete-precategories public
open import category-theory.composition-operations-on-binary-families-of-sets public
open import category-theory.cones-precategories public
open import category-theory.conservative-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.constant-functors public
open import category-theory.copointed-endofunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.copresheaf-categories public
open import category-theory.coproducts-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.cores-categories public
open import category-theory.cores-precategories public
open import category-theory.coslice-precategories public
open import category-theory.density-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-composition-operations-over-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-categories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-large-categories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.dependent-products-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.discrete-categories public
open import category-theory.displayed-precategories public
open import category-theory.embedding-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.embeddings-precategories public
open import category-theory.endomorphisms-in-categories public
open import category-theory.endomorphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.epimorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-categories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.equivalences-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.essential-fibers-of-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.essentially-injective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.essentially-surjective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.exponential-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.extensions-of-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.faithful-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.faithful-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-large-subcategories public
open import category-theory.full-large-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.full-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.full-subcategories public
open import category-theory.full-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.fully-faithful-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.fully-faithful-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.function-categories public
open import category-theory.function-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-large-categories public
open import category-theory.functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-nonunital-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.functors-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.gaunt-categories public
open import category-theory.groupoids public
open import category-theory.homotopies-natural-transformations-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.indiscrete-precategories public
open import category-theory.initial-category public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-large-categories public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.initial-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphism-induction-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphism-induction-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-large-categories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.isomorphisms-in-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.large-categories public
open import category-theory.large-function-categories public
open import category-theory.large-function-precategories public
open import category-theory.large-precategories public
open import category-theory.large-subcategories public
open import category-theory.large-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.left-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.left-kan-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.limits-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-categories public
open import category-theory.maps-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.maps-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.monads-on-categories public
open import category-theory.monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.monomorphisms-in-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.morphisms-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.morphisms-coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-isomorphisms-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-numbers-object-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-from-small-to-large-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-large-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-categories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.natural-transformations-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.nonunital-precategories public
open import category-theory.one-object-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-categories public
open import category-theory.opposite-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-precategories public
open import category-theory.opposite-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.opposite-strongly-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.pointed-endofunctors-categories public
open import category-theory.pointed-endofunctors-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-coalgebras-comonads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-elements-of-a-presheaf public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-free-algebras-monads-on-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-functors public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-functors-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-maps-from-small-to-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.precategory-of-maps-precategories public
open import category-theory.pregroupoids public
open import category-theory.presheaf-categories public
open import category-theory.preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.products-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.products-of-precategories public
open import category-theory.pseudomonic-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.pullbacks-in-precategories public
open import category-theory.replete-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-categories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-large-precategories public
open import category-theory.representable-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.representing-arrow-category public
open import category-theory.restrictions-functors-cores-precategories public
open import category-theory.right-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.right-kan-extensions-precategories public
open import category-theory.rigid-objects-categories public
open import category-theory.rigid-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.sieves-in-categories public
open import category-theory.simplex-category public
open import category-theory.slice-precategories public
open import category-theory.split-essentially-surjective-functors-precategories public
open import category-theory.strict-categories public
open import category-theory.strongly-preunivalent-categories public
open import category-theory.structure-equivalences-set-magmoids public
open import category-theory.subcategories public
open import category-theory.subprecategories public
open import category-theory.subterminal-precategories public
open import category-theory.terminal-category public
open import category-theory.terminal-objects-precategories public
open import category-theory.wide-subcategories public
open import category-theory.wide-subprecategories public
open import category-theory.yoneda-lemma-categories public
open import category-theory.yoneda-lemma-precategories public
```
